Welcome to the Longwinded Chef Readme! By installing this application, you too can post your own recipes, and your long boring stories about them!

Start by downloading the longwinded-chef-API, found here: https://github.com/MikeDudolevitch/longwinded-chef-api - copy the repo with the green 'Code' button, and in your terminal use the command: git clone [paste in the repo url here!]. Navigate to the directory using cd [repo url], and then run: bundle install. This will update all of the dependencies of this Rails API and ensure everything is up to date. To start the server, simply run rails s. The longwinded-chef-api server is set to use port localhost:8080, so as not to interfere with the port that the client-side will use (3000 as a default). Congrats, your API is now up and running! You can visit it at localhost:8080/recipes to see the index endpoint if you wish.

For the front-end application- do same as above, only from the https://github.com/MikeDudolevitch/longwinded-chef repo- copy the url, run git clone in the terminal, and paste in this app's url. Navigate into the app's directory, and run npm install - again just updating all of the app's dependencies to prevent issues running it. A command of npm start will begin the React server, and will automatically open localhost:3000 and display the application to the browser! Navigate using the nav bar at the top, or click into any of the recipes listed. This will direct you to the page for that recipe, including all of its instructions and ingredients. There is a comment form at the bottom, where you can write your name and a comment pertaining to that recipe. 

Thank you for using the Longwinded Chef!